README.md, before:

# Feedjira

[![Build Status][travis-badge]][travis] [![Code Climate][code-climate-badge]][code-climate] [![Gitter][gitter-badge]][gitter]

[travis-badge]: https://travis-ci.org/feedjira/feedjira.svg?branch=master
[travis]: http://travis-ci.org/feedjira/feedjira
[code-climate-badge]: https://codeclimate.com/github/feedjira/feedjira/badges/gpa.svg
[code-climate]: https://codeclimate.com/github/feedjira/feedjira
[gitter-badge]: https://badges.gitter.im/feedjira/feedjira.svg
[gitter]: https://gitter.im/feedjira/feedjira?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge

Feedjira is a Ruby library designed to parse feeds.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem "feedjira"
```

## Parsing

An example of parsing a feed with Feedjira:

```ruby
xml = HTTParty.get(url).body
feed = Feedjira.parse(xml)
feed.entries.first.title
# => "Announcing verison 1.0"
```

## Adding a feed parsing class

When determining which parser to use for a given XML document, the following
list of parser classes is used:

* `Feedjira::Parser::RSSFeedBurner`
* `Feedjira::Parser::GoogleDocsAtom`
* `Feedjira::Parser::AtomFeedBurner`
* `Feedjira::Parser::Atom`
* `Feedjira::Parser::ITunesRSS`
* `Feedjira::Parser::RSS`
* `Feedjira::Parser::JSONFeed`

You can insert your own parser at the front of this stack by calling
`add_feed_class`, like this:

```ruby
Feedjira::Feed.add_feed_class(MyAwesomeParser)
```

Now when you `parse`, `MyAwesomeParser` will be the first one to get a
chance to parse the feed.

If you have the XML and just want to provide a parser class for one parse, you
can specify that using `parse_with`:

```ruby
Feedjira.parse(xml, parser: MyAwesomeParser)
```

## Adding attributes to all feeds types / all entries types

```ruby
# Add the generator attribute to all feed types
Feedjira::Feed.add_common_feed_element("generator")
xml = HTTParty.get("http://www.pauldix.net/atom.xml").body
Feedjira.parse(xml).generator
# => "TypePad"
```

## Adding attributes to only one class

If you want to add attributes for only one class you simply have to declare them
in the class

```ruby
# Add some GeoRss information
class Feedjira::Parser::RSSEntry
  element "georss:elevation", as: :elevation
end

# Fetch a feed containing GeoRss info and print them
url = "https://earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/feed/v1.0/summary/significant_week.atom"
xml = HTTParty.get(url).body
Feedjira.parse(xml).entries.each do |entry|
  puts "Elevation: #{entry.elevation}"
end
```

## Configuration

#### Parsers

Feedjira can be configured to use a specific set of parsers and in a specific order:

```ruby
Feedjira.configure do |config|
  config.parsers = [
    Feedjira::Parser::ITunesRSS,
    MyAwesomeParser,
    Feedjira::Parser::RSS
  ]
end
```

#### Stripping whitespace from XML

Feedjira can be configured to strip all whitespace but defaults to lstrip only:

```ruby
Feedjira.configure do |config|
  config.strip_whitespace = true
end
```

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at
https://github.com/feedjira/feedjira. This project is intended to be a safe,
welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to
the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## Projects that use Feedjira

Feedjira is used in some awesome projects around the web - from RSS readers to
add-ons and everything in between. Here are some of them:

* [Feedbin][]: Feedbin bills itself as a fast, simple RSS reader that delivers a
  great reading experience. It's a paid RSS reader that integrates with mobile
  apps and it even has a fully featured API!

* [Stringer][]: Stringer is a self-hosted, anti-social RSS reader. It's an
  open-source project that's easy to deploy to any host, there's even a
  one-click button to deploy on Heroku.

* [BlogFeeder][]: BlogFeeder is a paid Shopify App that makes it easy for you to
  import any external blog into your Shopify store. It helps improve your
  store's SEO and keeps your blogs in sync, plus a lot more.

* [Feedbunch][]: Feedbunch is an open source feed reader built to fill the hole
  left by Google Reader. It aims to support all features of Google Reader and
  actually improve on others.

* [The Old Reader][old]: The Old Reader advertises as the ultimate social RSS
  reader. It's free to start and also has a paid premium version. There's an API
  and it integrates with many different mobile apps.

* [Solve for All][solve]: Solve for All combines search engine and feed parsing
  while protecting your privacy. It's even extendable by the community!

[Feedbin]: https://feedbin.com/
[Stringer]: https://github.com/swanson/stringer
[BlogFeeder]: https://apps.shopify.com/blogfeeder
[Feedbunch]: https://github.com/amatriain/feedbunch
[old]: http://theoldreader.com/
[solve]: https://solveforall.com/

Note: to get your project on this list, simply [send an email](mailto:feedjira@gmail.com)
with your project's details.

Commit message:

Cleanup docs for adding one custom parser

README.md, after:

# Feedjira

[![Build Status][travis-badge]][travis] [![Code Climate][code-climate-badge]][code-climate] [![Gitter][gitter-badge]][gitter]

[travis-badge]: https://travis-ci.org/feedjira/feedjira.svg?branch=master
[travis]: http://travis-ci.org/feedjira/feedjira
[code-climate-badge]: https://codeclimate.com/github/feedjira/feedjira/badges/gpa.svg
[code-climate]: https://codeclimate.com/github/feedjira/feedjira
[gitter-badge]: https://badges.gitter.im/feedjira/feedjira.svg
[gitter]: https://gitter.im/feedjira/feedjira?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge

Feedjira is a Ruby library designed to parse feeds.

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem "feedjira"
```

## Parsing

An example of parsing a feed with Feedjira:

```ruby
xml = HTTParty.get(url).body
feed = Feedjira.parse(xml)
feed.entries.first.title
# => "Announcing verison 1.0"
```

## Specifying parser

If you have the XML and just want to provide a parser class for one parse, you
can specify that using `parse` with the parser option:

```ruby
Feedjira.parse(xml, parser: MyAwesomeParser)
```

## Adding attributes to all feeds types / all entries types

```ruby
# Add the generator attribute to all feed types
Feedjira::Feed.add_common_feed_element("generator")
xml = HTTParty.get("http://www.pauldix.net/atom.xml").body
Feedjira.parse(xml).generator
# => "TypePad"
```

## Adding attributes to only one class

If you want to add attributes for only one class you simply have to declare them
in the class

```ruby
# Add some GeoRss information
class Feedjira::Parser::RSSEntry
  element "georss:elevation", as: :elevation
end

# Fetch a feed containing GeoRss info and print them
url = "https://earthquake.usgs.gov/earthquakes/feed/v1.0/summary/significant_week.atom"
xml = HTTParty.get(url).body
Feedjira.parse(xml).entries.each do |entry|
  puts "Elevation: #{entry.elevation}"
end
```

## Configuration

#### Parsers

## Adding a custom parser

You can insert your own parser at the front of the available parser list by:

```ruby
Feedjira.configure do |config|
  config.parsers.unshift(MyAwesomeParser)
end
```

Now when you call `Feedjira.parse`, `MyAwesomeParser` will be the first one to
get a chance to parse the feed.

## Explicitly set all available parsers

Feedjira can be configured to use a specific set of parsers and in a specific order:

```ruby
Feedjira.configure do |config|
  config.parsers = [
    Feedjira::Parser::ITunesRSS,
    MyAwesomeParser,
    Feedjira::Parser::RSS
  ]
end
```

#### Stripping whitespace from XML

Feedjira can be configured to strip all whitespace but defaults to lstrip only:

```ruby
Feedjira.configure do |config|
  config.strip_whitespace = true
end
```

## Contributing

Bug reports and pull requests are welcome on GitHub at
https://github.com/feedjira/feedjira. This project is intended to be a safe,
welcoming space for collaboration, and contributors are expected to adhere to
the [Contributor Covenant](http://contributor-covenant.org) code of conduct.

## Projects that use Feedjira

Feedjira is used in some awesome projects around the web - from RSS readers to
add-ons and everything in between. Here are some of them:

* [Feedbin][]: Feedbin bills itself as a fast, simple RSS reader that delivers a
  great reading experience. It's a paid RSS reader that integrates with mobile
  apps and it even has a fully featured API!

* [Stringer][]: Stringer is a self-hosted, anti-social RSS reader. It's an
  open-source project that's easy to deploy to any host, there's even a
  one-click button to deploy on Heroku.

* [BlogFeeder][]: BlogFeeder is a paid Shopify App that makes it easy for you to
  import any external blog into your Shopify store. It helps improve your
  store's SEO and keeps your blogs in sync, plus a lot more.

* [Feedbunch][]: Feedbunch is an open source feed reader built to fill the hole
  left by Google Reader. It aims to support all features of Google Reader and
  actually improve on others.

* [The Old Reader][old]: The Old Reader advertises as the ultimate social RSS
  reader. It's free to start and also has a paid premium version. There's an API
  and it integrates with many different mobile apps.

* [Solve for All][solve]: Solve for All combines search engine and feed parsing
  while protecting your privacy. It's even extendable by the community!

[Feedbin]: https://feedbin.com/
[Stringer]: https://github.com/swanson/stringer
[BlogFeeder]: https://apps.shopify.com/blogfeeder
[Feedbunch]: https://github.com/amatriain/feedbunch
[old]: http://theoldreader.com/
[solve]: https://solveforall.com/

Note: to get your project on this list, simply [send an email](mailto:feedjira@gmail.com)
with your project's details.
